README.md, before:

# Pain2Gain

Transform pain points into business opportunities.

## Getting Started

1. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. Copy the environment variables:

   ```bash
   cp .env.local.example .env.local
   ```

3. Set up Supabase database:
   - Create a new project at [supabase.com](https://supabase.com)
   - Go to Project Settings > API to get your URL and anon key
   - Run the SQL migration in `supabase/migrations/001_initial_schema.sql` in the Supabase SQL Editor
   - This creates the `ideas`, `sources`, and `subscriptions` tables
   - Enable Authentication: Go to Authentication > Providers and enable "Email" provider

4. Fill in your API keys in `.env.local`:
   - `OPENAI_API_KEY` - OpenAI API key for idea generation
   - `SUPABASE_URL` - Supabase project URL (from step 3)
   - `SUPABASE_ANON_KEY` - Supabase anonymous key (from step 3)
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL` - Same as SUPABASE_URL (for client-side auth)
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY` - Same as SUPABASE_ANON_KEY (for client-side auth)
   - `EMAIL_API_KEY` - Email service API key (Resend or SendGrid) - optional for now

5. Run the development server:

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

5. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser.

## Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run start` - Start production server
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint
- `npm run format` - Format code with Prettier
- `npm run format:check` - Check code formatting

## Project Structure

```
src/
  app/
    feed/        # Feed page
    api/         # API routes
  assets/        # Static assets (images, icons, fonts)
  lib/           # Pure logic (LLM, Reddit, Supabase, Email)
  types/         # Shared TypeScript interfaces
data/            # Mock/static data
docs/            # Project documentation
```

Commit message:

Update environment configuration for Supabase and add Reddit API credentials
- Refactor Supabase environment variables to use NEXT_PUBLIC_ prefix for client-side accessibility.
- Add optional Reddit API credentials to .env.example and .env.local.example for live data fetching.
- Update README with instructions for new environment variables and clarify the use of NEXT_PUBLIC_ prefix for Supabase keys.

README.md, after:

# Pain2Gain

Transform pain points into business opportunities.

## Getting Started

1. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. Copy the environment variables:

   ```bash
   cp .env.local.example .env.local
   ```

3. Set up Supabase database:
   - Create a new project at [supabase.com](https://supabase.com)
   - Go to Project Settings > API to get your URL and anon key
   - Run the SQL migration in `supabase/migrations/001_initial_schema.sql` in the Supabase SQL Editor
   - This creates the `ideas`, `sources`, and `subscriptions` tables
   - Enable Authentication: Go to Authentication > Providers and enable "Email" provider

4. Fill in your API keys in `.env.local`:
   - `OPENAI_API_KEY` - OpenAI API key for idea generation
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL` - Supabase project URL (from step 3)
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY` - Supabase anonymous key (from step 3)
   - (Optional) Reddit API credentials for live data: `REDDIT_CLIENT_ID`, `REDDIT_CLIENT_SECRET`, `REDDIT_USERNAME`, `REDDIT_PASSWORD`, `REDDIT_USER_AGENT`
   - `EMAIL_API_KEY` - Email service API key (Resend or SendGrid) - optional for now
   
   **Note:** We use `NEXT_PUBLIC_` prefix for Supabase variables because they're needed on both server and client. The anon key is meant to be public - security comes from Row Level Security (RLS) policies.

5. Run the development server:

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

5. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser.

## Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run start` - Start production server
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint
- `npm run format` - Format code with Prettier
- `npm run format:check` - Check code formatting

## Project Structure

```
src/
  app/
    feed/        # Feed page
    api/         # API routes
  assets/        # Static assets (images, icons, fonts)
  lib/           # Pure logic (LLM, Reddit, Supabase, Email)
  types/         # Shared TypeScript interfaces
data/            # Mock/static data
docs/            # Project documentation
```
